feat(DPE-7464): Add security docs (#87)
canonical/charmed-etcd-operator: docs/explanation/security/index.md

| Azure     | [Juju Azure Permission](https://juju.is/docs/juju/microsoft-azure), [How to use Juju with Microsoft Azure](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/how-to-use-juju-with-microsoft-azure/15219)                                                         |
| GCP       | [Google GCE cloud and Juju](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-google-gce-cloud-and-juju/)                                                                              |

#### Juju users

It is very important that Juju users are set up with minimal permissions depending on the scope of their operations. Please refer to the [User access levels](https://juju.is/docs/juju/user-permissions) documentation for more information on the access levels and corresponding abilities.

Juju user credentials must be stored securely and rotated regularly to limit the chances of unauthorized access due to credentials leakage.

## Applications

In the following, we provide guidance on how to harden your deployment using:

1. Operating system
2. Security upgrades
3. Encryption 
4. Authentication

> 5. Monitoring and auditing

Reviewer: Needed another section for authorization - what can relation users do on an etcd cluster (roles, restrictions on operations and prefix restriction)

Author: Added

### Operating system

Charmed etcd runs on top of Ubuntu 24.04. Deploy a [Landscape Client Charm](https://charmhub.io/landscape-client?) to connect the underlying VM to a Landscape User Account to manage security upgrades and integrate [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) subscriptions. 

### Security upgrades

> Charmed etcd installs a pinned revision of the Charmed etcd snap to provide reproducible and secure environments.

Reviewer: Similar comment

| AWS       | [Best Practices for Security, Identity and Compliance](https://aws.amazon.com/architecture/security-identity-compliance), [AWS security credentials](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/security-creds.html)                                             |
| Azure     | [Azure security best practices and patterns](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/fundamentals/best-practices-and-patterns), [Managed identities for Azure resource](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/) |
| GCP       | [Google security overview](https://cloud.google.com/docs/security)                                                                                                                                                                                                     |  |

### Juju 

Juju is the component responsible for orchestrating the entire lifecycle, from deployment to Day 2 operations. For more information on Juju security hardening, see the

> [Juju security page](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/explanation/juju-security/) and the [How to harden your deployment](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/howto/manage-your-deployment/#harden-your-deployment) guide.

Reviewer 2: chore: Update the link. 
```suggestion
[Juju security page](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/latest/explanation/juju-security/index.html) and the [How to harden your deployment](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/howto/manage-your-deployment/#harden-your-deployment) guide.
```

| OpenStack | [OpenStack cloud and Juju](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-openstack-cloud-and-juju/)                                                                                |
| AWS       | [Juju AWS Permission](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/juju-aws-permissions/5307), [AWS Instance Profiles](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/using-aws-instance-profiles-with-juju-2-9/5185), [Juju on AWS](https://juju.is/docs/juju/amazon-ec2) |
| Azure     | [Juju Azure Permission](https://juju.is/docs/juju/microsoft-azure), [How to use Juju with Microsoft Azure](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/how-to-use-juju-with-microsoft-azure/15219)                                                         |
| GCP       | [Google GCE cloud and Juju](https://canonical-juju.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/latest/user/reference/cloud/list-of-supported-clouds/the-google-gce-cloud-and-juju/)                                                                              |

#### Juju users

> It is very important that Juju users are set up with minimal permissions depending on the scope of their operations. Please refer to the [User access levels](https://juju.is/docs/juju/user-permissions) documentation for more information on the access levels and corresponding abilities.

Reviewer 2: chore: update the link.
```suggestion
It is very important that Juju users are set up with minimal permissions depending on the scope of their operations. Please refer to the [User access levels](https://documentation.ubuntu.com/juju/3.6/reference/user/#user-access-levels) documentation for more information on the access levels and corresponding abilities.
```

Juju user credentials must be stored securely and rotated regularly to limit the chances of unauthorized access due to credentials leakage.

## Applications

In the following, we provide guidance on how to harden your deployment using:

1. Operating system
2. Security upgrades
3. Encryption 
4. Authentication
5. Authorization
6. Monitoring and auditing

### Operating system

Charmed etcd runs on top of Ubuntu 24.04. Deploy a [Landscape Client Charm](https://charmhub.io/landscape-client?) to connect the underlying VM to a Landscape User Account to manage security upgrades and integrate [Ubuntu Pro](https://ubuntu.com/pro) subscriptions. 

### Security upgrades

> charmed-etcd-operator uses the charmed-etcd-snap, where each revision of the charm pins a revision of the snap to provide reproducible environments.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: The kebab-case strikes again. Let's fix it similarly to the line 7 in `cryptography.md`.
```suggestion
`charmed-etcd-operator` uses the `charmed-etcd-snap`, where each revision of the charm pins a revision of the snap to provide reproducible environments.
```

### Monitoring and auditing

Charmed etcd provides native integration with the [Canonical Observability Stack (COS)](https://charmhub.io/topics/canonical-observability-stack). To reduce the blast radius of infrastructure disruptions, the general recommendation is to deploy COS and the observed application into separate environments, isolated from one another. Refer to the [COS production deployments best practices](https://charmhub.io/topics/canonical-observability-stack/reference/best-practices) for more information.

For instructions, see the [How to enable monitoring](../../how-to/enable-monitoring) guide.

Logging is enabled by default. The logs are stored in the `/var/snap/charmed-etcd/common/var/log/etcd` directory of the etcd container. Log rotation is enabled by default. It’s recommended to integrate the charm with [COS](https://discourse.charmhub.io/t/9900), from where the logs can be easily persisted and queried using [Loki](https://charmhub.io/loki-k8s)/[Grafana](https://charmhub.io/grafana).

## Additional Resources

> For details on the cryptography used by Charmed etcd, see the [Cryptography](./cryptography) explanation page.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: Link can be simplified and be used in a more consistent way.

```suggestion
For details on the cryptography used by Charmed etcd, see the [Cryptography](cryptography) explanation page.
```
